# Impact Of Financial Factors On Cash Holdings Of Food And Beverage Companies In Vietnam In 2020

Before 2020, Vietnam's F&B market continued to grow and was assessed to be full of potential. However, in the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the activities of many businesses in the industry have been facing a problem of survival. According to a survey by VnExpress, the cash flow of 46% of corporations has dried up, just enough for businesses to maintain operations for 1-3 months.  

In the current challenging situation of the new COVID-19 outbreak, cash availability even plays an unequivocal role when firms suffer from difficulties in their business. The adequate level of cash reserves within the firms will protect them from insolvency by helping to cover all expenses payments incurred in daily operation. This shows the importance of the decision to hold cash because it is closely related to companies’ operations and a core requirement to ensure continued operations. The term cash holdings in this study refer to the amount of cash and cash equivalent items available for the company to meet its short-term and emergency needs. However, cash holding is not always beneficial for businesses because firms that hold cash levels more than the optimal balance might obtain the low rate of return on cash or liquid assets. 

In the past, there were many studies on the influence of financial variables on the decision to keep cash of companies. However, there were almost no research papers that studied this influence during the Covid-19 pandemic and more specifically in the F&B industry in Vietnam. By referencing the variables in previous studies and applying the linear regression model, we want to use data from a sample of 70 F&B companies operating in the Vietnamese market to study the impact of financial determinants to firms' cash holdings. 
